In this exercise, we're going to
implement a simple Feature Toggle for
an operation in a trivial
calculator application.
Starting with lab apps-
features start script
to fetch the source
code to our calculator.
Let's move over to the
calculator working directory,
that's the DO378/
labs/apps-feature/quarkus-calculator-monoliths/
Looking at the source code,
it is a simple SolverService and
the SolverResource.java application
base two classes based application,
which is an empty application
properties at the moment.
So if we start the
application in dev mode,
as it starts, here we go.
If we send it,
it's listening on port 8080,
if we send it a request to solve,
it is listening on the solver
endpoint to solve 3 plus 5,
it correctly returns 8.0.
If we send in a 3-5, however,
it says it can't parse the expression.
That's because the subtraction
feature has not yet been implemented.
So if we have a look and
edit the SolverResource,
the Java file, what we will be doing
is we will be adding the
ConfigProperty annotation,
we will be adding a subtractPattern to
the two existing patterns
for multiplication and addition.
So the subtraction pattern is basically
a regular expression as well,
so that the two operands are
separated by a minus character.
And we are also going to inject
a @ConfigProperty called
features.subtract-enabled.
The field is simply
called subtractEnabled.
Now, in the calculation decision group,
we check that the property is enabled
and if it is, we create a new Matcher,
subtractMatcher, which
matches the equation,
looking for the subtractPattern
and if the subtractPattern is found,
we return the subtract method's result,
which means we need to
implement that method as well
and it's simple enough.
So it's just literally two strings,
a log notifying that we are
doing the subtraction and
the solve invocation of
the left-hand side and the
right-hand side of the equation.
This is in recursive calculator,
so it progresses from outermost
expression to the innermost one.
So that's why we basically recursively
invoke the solve method as well.
And if that method does not find
any nested calculation expression,
it simply returns the same result,
so for simple calculations like 3-5,
this would just simply eventually
resolve to 3 on the left-hand side,
5 on the right-hand side,
and then ultimately return the result.
We still need to implement the toggle,
so in the application.properties,
we are going to add features.subtract-
enabled initially
set to false, right?
So just checking that the application
still gives us unable to parse result.
We see that it is still
unable to parse it.
Now, changing that toggle to true and
invoking the application again gives
us the correct result of -2.
That means we can stop the application,
run the lab apps-feature
finish script which cleans
everything up and proceed
to the next video,
which is about connecting multiple
services to each other. See you there.